# Course goals and plan
I want to learn bioinformatics because I have been studying biology, conducting biology research, and plan to pursue research after I receive my undergraduate degree. Engaging with science in this way inescapably lends itself to engaging with data, including the processing and analysis of data. Furthermore, since experimental data almost always needs to be processed by a computer nowadays, I want to get comfortable using software and understanding how data scientists think and work so that I can navigate that environment confidently.

My goals for this course at this point in time are still rather open-ended. While I have already taken two data science classes and have gained some experience experimenting with python, I still feel very out of my depth when it comes to really understanding how software works and what bioinformatics look like. I feel that I understand things on a very superficial level but that I am missing foundational knowledge. So my biggest goal for the class is to feel less lost. It is a very vague goal because I am not sure what that looks like yet. Another goal I have for this class is to identify how I can apply what I learn in this course to my current research. I am very passionate about being competent and independent in dealing with my own data, so I am excited to apply what I learn to my research.

Two big ways I internalized what I learned in my Intro to Programming class was to have fun and to try to break the code. First, I would practice what I’d learned by making little programs in practice notebooks. I would create whatever inspired me. Second, I would often try to figure out what different things do by taking a line of code that I knew functioned as expected and trying to break it in different ways. Sometimes that meant deleting a specific command, breaking the syntax, etc. That was a good way to intuit what things were.

However, while those two methods helped me feel out programming, they did not always clarify overarching concepts. I later discovered libraries as a great way to understand how things worked and what exists out there. On top of my old habits, this semester I also plan to explore GitHub as a new resource, and to interact with generative AI to work through concepts and better understand the logic behind how things are designed.

One main feature of the structure of my project folder is that it keeps different components of the project separate. This has a couple benefits. First, it keeps things clean and organized. This makes it easier for the project, and different components of it to be used by unfamiliar parties. Second, it helps protect the project. For example, the raw data is kept separate from the cleaned data and remains unaltered. If something were to happen to the clean data file, the raw data would still exist. Third, the structure includes spaces to explain and reference knowledge. For example, the logs folder can be used to understand how the project was updated over time. The references folder can be used to reference what resources were used in creating functions, or what version of the software was used at the time. Fourth, keeping the scripts in a separate folder also allows for the script to be generalized and shared easily, as well as for it to be turned into a tool.

Clearly structuring a project and carefully documenting every aspect of it is important so that any component of the project can be easily understood, verified, and reused.
